Nino Anthony Galanida
Essay(1000 words)

Troubleshooting of Computer Systems is one of my focused topics since high school, back then, I majored Computer Hardware Servicing NCII, mainly focusing on assembling and disassembling of computer parts, software installations, networking and troubleshooting. And Now I am taking this subject in college which is somehow already familiar to me. I do have already background about computer parts. Back in High School we have been provided a personal Computer each of us, so there’s really no excuse for not learning. I did learn a lot back then, I did tried troubleshooting usual cases and fortunately I somehow fixed it.  
During my experience in this subject course, I do have a lot and additional learnings which was not mention on my secondary years. I do learn more about computer troubleshooting issues, how to gradually  determine the problem and  to fix it. My knowledge about computer hardware parts was also refreshed since I did learn them back from high school. It is really worth to learn and be remembered because it is very important as a computer engineer to become, one must know the basics especially the computer parts and in troubleshooting process.
Computer systems have a lot of parts and its corresponding  function which is a need to get  familiarized. Getting panicked sometimes whenever there is problem to occur, I  learn to keep calm a investigate the error, so there must be a basic troubleshooting techniques to be followed. One should learn how to maintain their own personal computers such as a regular cleaning in the system unit must be done in order to avoid future errors . A computer containing accumulated dust  and debris may not run properly. Dust and debris will accumulate as a result of air cooling. Any filters used to mitigate this need regular service and changes. If the cooling system is not filtered then regular computer cleaning may prevent short circuits and overheating, so we must rather clean regularly than letting our personal computers be destroyed because of our unmindful actions. Another thing that I learned is about those software to install in order to avoid malwares and viruses which could heavily attached the core system. In maintaining  the keyboard, the crumbs, dust and other particulate that fall between the keys and build up underneath are lossened by spraying  pressurized air into the keyboard then removed with a low pressure vacuum cleaner. A plastic- cleaning agent applied to the surface of the keys with a cloth is used to remove the accumulation of oil and dirt from repeated contact with a user’s fingertips. If this is not a sufficient for a more severely  dirty keyboard, keys are physically removed for more focused individual cleaning, or for better access to the area beneath. Finally the surface is wiped with a disinfectant. For the monitor,  a monitor displays information in visual form, using text and graphics. The portion of the monitor that displays the information is called screen. Like  a television screen, a computer screen can show still or moving picture and it’s a part of output devices.One should also know what to install and be mindful at all times whenever we do have unsure installations that could create system malfunction or even give you a hard time to fix. Anti-virus  and anti- malware scans should be run at least once a week. Be sure to run updates for these programs whenever they released, as new viruses and malware spring up constantly.”Prevention is better than cure”, this is a very popular saying one must apply, a lot of us, I sometimes, is negligent in our things especially our computer we don’t try to think the possibility of the problems it may occur in the future, we do have to be mindful of the limits of our gadgets, sooner or later it may do have some crashing or even a very hard error, preventing it by a regular cleaning your computer parts especially on the hardware in the system unit which is prone to have dust or even insects could penetrate .This is just some of many of my learnings I acquired in this subject.
If am to give a suggestions for the improvement of the subject, I suggest that it would be much more effective , if we are able to apply each topic we have been assigned to , what I am implying is we are able to have an actual and hands-on in every component or theory we have dicussed, to gradually apply our learning .  But I know that it is really  inevitable to happen since we really lack equipment and facilities to cater every student and I know that our teacher just adjust to what available resources we can use in order to complete the subject course outline, it is really challenging not just for us students, but also to our teacher as a matter of fact that we lack resources and equipments.
The subject was not a burden on my part since we do not have much of activities to be done. And I know that our instructor is very considerate in our other subjects especially the major ones. I am very please on your understanding for us sir, you did really know how we are struggling to our best to pass this semester. I know that you do have really a great  plan for us but time must be a reason. I did somehow hope to take the National Certificate which was promised by Sir Galao. I did really craved for it, back then from high school I wasn’t able to take the assessment for the National Certificate because of  time also since I was on the fourth batch to take the assessment and our graduation is fast approaching. Unfortunately I wasn’t able to take, I did dismay a little but I am still grateful that Iearn those things .
All I can say is thank you sir for all the lessons we have learned not just about computers but also lessons about life which is worth remembering an to cherish.
